Point in this lecture you are going to talk about tax clustering and natural language processing.
So let's get started.
Basically what's the aim of natural language processing.
Of course the aim is to end up with an algorithm that's capable of classifying documents and tax.
For example we would like to decide whether an email is spam or not or we would like to classify emails
according to topics or for example not just e-mails but articles on the web.
Whether they are science related topics politics related topics religion related topics and so on or
for example if you are interested in stock markets then you want to crawl the web with even a web crawler
and you would like to find all the stock market related articles of course.
Somehow you have to transform documents articles and tax into numerical data in order to be able to
classify them and find out whether the topic is about a better stock market science politics and something
like this.
OK this is called sentiment analysis by the way.
And a problem that algorithms can handle numerical data not tax documents and strains.
So somehow we have to transform documents and strains into numerical data in order to be able to use
the machine learning algorithms.
OK.
There are two kinds of tax clustering and semantic clustering group sentences with the same meaning
and information.
They do not contain the same Virts for example but we know that they have the same information and meaning.
Ok then we have the thematic clustering that groups sentences with the same topic.
Ok for example we have an article on Java and we have an article on C and C++.
It's not the same meaning and same information but we know that it is the same topic.
Software Engineering and Computer Science.
OK.
So first we need to measure our tax similarity was the similarity between two documents between two
sentences between two articles and we needed each clustering algorithm.
That's why Usually we use k means clustering.
But we can use any other machine learning approaches such as logistic regression or naive base classifier.
OK so the first approach is to split a given tax into a set of words.
For example we have two sentences.
My name is Kevin is going to be transformed into a one dimensional array of words.
Strings basically.
My name is Kevin.
My dog is now and is going to be transformed into my dog is nice.
So we are going to split the articles or the sentences in this case and we are going to store the items
in one dimensional arrays.
How to convert it into numerical data.
For example we can count the occurrence of every single word.
This is how we end up with the document Dermont matrix.
We had all the distinctive words in all the sentences not just the first sentence or just the second
sentence but all the documents and all the sentences.
My name Dog is.
Nice.
So as you can see we are able to construct the first sentence and the second sentence says survival
out of these words.
And then we just have to take a look at the first sentence it is with zero index.
We have a word my.
So that's why there's the one we have a word name.
As you can see my name is Kevin.
We don't have the word dog in the first sentence than we have is in the first sentence we have Cadden
in the first sentence but we don't have knives in the first sentence.
What about the second sentence.
We have my we don't have name we have a dog we have is we don't have Skadden but we have a nice.
My dog is nice.
This is the document term matrix.
We are able to construct a matrix like this out of a given article a given document not just from a
given sentence OK but there's a problem that lots of common words that do not mean much are present
in the text such as my dirk is you wish you'd get rid of these Verd that do not contain much information
as you can see both sentences contains my for example or is so our intuition that these words are not
important they do not contain much information.
So that's why we should get rid of them.
And that's why a better solution is that T.F. IVF term frequency Inv. document frequency back to approach
this approach handled always forgiven w in a given document.
D in this case we have sentences I don't want to repeat myself over and over again but it's very important
to see in this case we have sentences.
But we can have articles and documents.
We have a sentence.
It can be an article.
It can be a document.
This is the second sentence second article or second document.
OK.
So we just have to calculate the term frequency which is the number of times W-word appears in Dokument
D.
This document is the sentence in this case divided by the total number of words in the document the
times the inverse document frequency which is the logarithm of the number of documents.
Divide by the number of documents that contain over w was the number of documents in this case the number
of documents is two.
We have two sentences.
OK so what's the meaning of term frequency and Inv. document frequency the more times 30 occurs in document
d the more likely it is that T is relevant to the document.
For example we have an article and we come to the conclusion that the word physics here is certain times
in that given article then it is a good guess that given article is about physics.
OK.
So the more times term t occurs in Dokument d the more likely it is that T is relevant to the document.
What about Inv. document frequency.
The more term t appears through all the documents the more puerility discriminate between documents.
And that's why we have to get rid of the Virts that occurs in every single article.
For example dirt is mine and so warm.
So that's why we have to get rid of these.
My the is you these words do not contain much information.
Why.
Because every single article every single sentence every single document contains these words these
words do not contain much information.
OK.
It's very important that in Python we can use the built in functions and built classes DFI the fact
the riser is going to make a T.F. IDF Waechter the count vectorize or is going to count the occurrence
of given avert.
So T.F. idea of where the riser is going to calculate the Sterne's count where the riser is going to
end up with the document term a matrix is going to count the appearance of every single word in a given
sentence document or article.
So that's all about the basics behind attacks clustering.
What's important that first of all we have to tokenize a given sentence a given article a given document
then we can count the occurrence but it's not going to be very good because there's going to be lots
of lots of words that do not contain much information.
That's why T.F. IDF approach came to be which is going to be a bit better with the help of IDF.
We are able to measure the similarity of two distinct sentences articles or documents.
We just have to calculate these terms and we just have to multiply them.
OK so that's all about tax clustering.
Thanks for watching.